and I from another world
a smell detector investigating the path
ahead we don't often see a snail that
way and that's because we've only
recently had the tiny lenses and
electronic cameras that we need to
explore this miniature world
but when we meet its inhabitants
face-to-face we suddenly realize that
their behavior can be just as meaningful
to us as the behavior of many animals
more our own size look at this for
example it's nearly yes but it's also a
female and a mother and like so many
mothers she's God how young these two
ants are not quite sure whether they'd
like one another
stroking antennae is the equivalent of a
cautious chat over the garden fence when
big animals go courting they show off
and so do damselflies
courtship signals for the male wolf
spider are rather more frantic because
if his female doesn't understand why
he's approaching her she'll eat him this
ant is a farmer and these aphids the
cows which it milks for a drink of
honeydew every day
other ants are eternally on the march
powerfully armed soldiers guard the
flanks of their column as they travel
protecting the workers who are carrying
their helpless young
when it comes to craftsmanship few can
beat this wasp using mud to construct an
elegant jar in which to store her eggs
mud is also used by termites they build
tower blocks that in proportion to their
size are torn or the New York
skyscrapers these two worlds ours and
theirs influence one another to an
extraordinary degree if we in the rest
of the backbone animals were to
disappear overnight rest of the world
would get on pretty well but if they
were to disappear the lounge ecosystems
would collapse for the fact is they were
the pioneers the first animals of any
kind to colonize the lands of the earth